Maven is a Project management tool 

when we are building a prject we need to compile our file 
run our file , test our file , then packaging it and finally deploy it 

And normally we can do that with the help of IDEs
But sometimes we need to use some external libraries 
like for conecting java to database we need a connector which depends on the DBMS we are working with 

Example for MySQL, we need MySQL connector.
For Postgres, we need Postgres connector.

Hibernate :-Tool which helps you to save data in database
without writing a SQL query. 
To make hibernate work we need libraries in hibernate libraries here means JAR files we need to get these JAR files

to get Those JAR files Go to google and search for hibernate JAR files and we can download it 
different IDEs Support different JAR files

if we are working with JDBC  where we are connecting with MYSQL we just need one conector
But For Hibernate we need Multiple JAR files  because the main dependency which you have
is a JAR file of Hibernate,
but Hibernate itself is dependent on the other JAR files.
We call them as transitive dependencies.
So basically you need to get all the dependencies,
all the JAR files in your machine.
and we can say we can do that becuase e have to do it only once which we will do only once which is the start of project 

But incase infuture we want to upgrade our dependecies at that point we will haave to downloas all the dependencies
 
WHY Maven ?
let's say if you're working with Spring Framework.Now Spring needs their own dependencies, own JAR files.
And now Spring and Hibernate will work together.That also means that the JAR files which you have,
of course, they will also have their versions.So the Spring will work with Hibernate.
So let's say whatever version you're using for Springshould match with the version of Hibernate.So let's say if Spring 5 works with Hibernate 4,
there's a chance that Spring 5will not work with Hibernate 5,or Spring 6 will not work with Hibernate 4.
So that means every time you want to upgrade somethingor make some changes,you need to get the JAR files again downloaded.So that's one problem.
Second problem is what if you are giving your projectto your colleague for testing or code review,
or maybe they want to add something in the project?So we have to make sure that they also have the same dependencies
which you have added.So they will also go to Google.
They will also download added work,plus they have to make sure they get the right version
which you are using. What if they're using some different version?
It will not work.And that's where we need to make sure
that all the versions are in sync.Plus, we want those features as well, right,
which is compiling, running, testing,creating a package, installing, deploying.
If you can get a tool which will help you with all these things, and that's where Maven comes to the picture.

So Maven Helps to get Dependencies